# First Actual Post (OverTheWire Progression Update)
### 27/08/25
---
## Brief update on the blog

After putting off posting anything for about a month, I have finally come around to uploading something to this blog.
My plan is to create and maintain a regular upload schedule with blog posts to use as motivation for staying consistent in studying and any projects.


---

## OverTheWire Progress

So far, I have only completed levels up to Bandit Level 16 (I have put it off for a while as well) and recorded some of the progress:

**25/06/25**
- Completed Level 0 on Bandit - Connected to the host using SSH with the username and password provided, and located the password for Level 1.

- Completed Level 1 on Bandit - Had to go to Stack Overflow to find the command that allows me to read a file with a dashed filename (to get the password for Level 2).

- Completed Levels 2 to 9 with a friend later in the day - We both helped each other on different levels where we didn't have a solution, and these levels mainly revolved around needing to search for files or specific strings in large data sets to find the passwords. Also used ChatGPT for explaining commands.

**29/06/25**
 - Completed Levels 10 to 16 between now and the last update.
Used a few walkthroughs on levels due to complexity and had help from my friend. (Didn't have any notes for these levels)

---

**Today**

Completed only a few levels today (walkthroughs were used in all):

- Level 16 - For level 16 needed to find the correct port on localhost and send the current password using <span style="color:red">ncat</span>, which returns the SSH key that is used for connecting to the next level.

- Level 17 - Simply use the <span style="color:red">diff</span> bash command to compare two text files, with the password being a string that doesn't match in both files.

- Level 18 - Cannot login into the level with SSH (get logged out instantly after connecting), so just needed to add commands to display a readme file containing the password after the SSH command.